[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and dan walker
our headlines for you at six o'clock all
travelers entering the uk could face
mandatory cover tests after they arrive
to stop the spread of new variants
over 70s in england who haven't been
vaccinated are told to contact the nhs
donald trump on trial again the first
ever impeachment of a former president
begins today
the bulk of child care and less secured
jobs good morning why women
are suffering more from the economic
impact of covid
and p say there's a gender gap in
support the government says
it's doing whatever it takes the uk's
first football hate crime police officer
says prosecution
is the only option now the referee mike
dean
asks not to be involved in a premier
league match this weekend
after death threats to his family
i get to wear hi-vis and be very bossy
and go
boy no just to welcome people as i'm
about to do
good morning sir welcome from the lord
of the manner to vaccine center
volunteer downton starr hugh bonneville
on his new role on the covid frontline
good morning at the moment there is
currently 60 centimetres of lying snow
in braemar
there are further snow showers in the
forecast today not all of us seeing them
still gusty winds with a significant
wind chill so
feeling bitter but i'll have only
details later in the programme
[Music]
according to tuesday the 9th of february
our main story for you
all travelers entering the uk will be
tested for coronavirus
after they arrive under plans which are
to be announced
shortly they still have to provide a
negative covid test before they travel
and either self-isolate or quarantine on
arrival depending where they've come
from
our reporter charlotte wright has more
details on this
and all the latest developments in the
fight against the virus
just some of the millions who have now
been vaccinated
against covid19 but while these people
were told to wait to be called up
now in england those over 70 who haven't
yet been given an
appointment are being urged to contact
the nhs themselves
online or by calling 119. my advice to
you is
very simple do not delay
have the vaccine that will protect you
against the current threat
and don't worry you can be revaccinated
it follows concerns about the
performance of the oxford astrazeneca
vaccine
after a small study found it gave
minimal protection
against mild disease from the south
africa variant
but scientists say that shouldn't deter
people from getting a jab in the uk
where the dominant strain of the virus
is different i don't think it's an
immediate concern
and every bit of immunity to this virus
that you can accumulate
is is a good thing because it will in
all likelihood reduce the severity of
disease if you do catch
this virus even if it is from one of the
the overseas strains or
a strain which has acquired some
resistance but the virus is changing
here too extra community testing known
as surge testing
will start in parts of south manchester
today after a mutation of the kent
variant was discovered in four people
in two separate households experts say
it's to be expected
in itself we're not particularly worried
we think
based on good tests are done in
test tubes that the vaccine will still
work
perhaps just not quite as well as
previously but still good enough to
protect people from severe
disease and that means going into
hospital and from dying
meanwhile it's been announced that all
passengers arriving in the uk will now
be required to take a covid test
during their isolation measures the
department for health says will provide
a further level of protection for the
country and another sign that the
pandemic's journey
is far from over charlotte wright bbc
news
and as ever here on breakfast we will
bring you more information and analysis
of those
issues throughout the programme
including um questions to our medical
editor fergus walsh
who's answering your questions at 8 30
send some more in if you'd like to
yeah bbc breakfast at bbc dot co uk is
our email address this morning
now campaigners say care homes in
england must be helped to reopen to
visitors
by march age uk is among six
organizations
asking for the return of what they call
meaningful indoor
visits as many residents have now spent
almost a year in isolation
the impeachment trial of donald trump
starts in the u.s senate today he's
charged with inciting a mob of his
supporters to attack the capitol
building last month
his lawyers have said mr trump will not
testify and that he did not
spark the violence our washington
correspondent barbara platasha reports
for the first time in modern history
america's peaceful transfer of power was
shaken
the capital stormed by armed supporters
of the president to stop congress from
declaring his election defeat
the ragged insurrection jolted lawmakers
into action
members of the lower chamber including
some republicans
charged donald trump with inciting the
riot
we fight like hell and if you don't
fight like hell you're not going to have
a country anymore
president trump used fiery language that
day his lawyers say he was simply
exercising his right to free speech
we're going to walk down to the capitol
but democrats plan to use his own words
against him
they say the evidence is all out there
live streamed and live tweeted
and they will present it in vivid color
for the nation to see
no one will be able to avert their gaze
from what mr trump
said and did and the consequences of his
actions
five people died during the riot here a
memorial service for a capitol police
officer who was killed
and lawmakers on both sides of the aisle
feared for their lives
and then i just start to hear these
yells of
where is she where is she
like hell i'm gonna let a bunch of
domestic terrorists interfere with our
job to protect and defend the
constitution
you solemnly swear it looks almost
certain though that senate republicans
won't vote to convict on the day they
were sworn in as jurors
most of them backed mr trump calling the
trial unconstitutional
democrats are wasting the nation's time
on a
partisan vendetta against a man no
longer in office
the man may have left the white house
but he's still a power broker in the
party
with a tight grip on the grassroots and
he's not coming back here to testify
to this fortress capital still under
heavy guard to protect members of
congress
republicans are clearly eager to turn
this unhappy page
and move on but democrats are determined
to hold donald trump to account
for the history books if nothing else
barbara platt usher bbc news
washington
police in myanmar have fired water
cannon on protesters who taken to the
streets for a fourth consecutive day of
demonstrations
they're calling for the restoration of
democracy after the military seized
power last week and arrested many
leading democratic politicians the
military's banned gatherings of more
than five
people a mission to mars is due to orbit
the red planet later today
at the hope spacecraft still has one of
the most dangerous parts of its journey
ahead when it needs to break
for just the right amount of time to
avoid crashing into mars
or missing altogether sounds pretty
important isn't it technical
yeah our global science correspondent
who knows more
rebecca morel reports
a first for the united arab emirates
this was the moment
last summer when it sent its spacecraft
to mars
now it's almost reached its destination
but the probe called hope has a critical
maneuver ahead
getting into orbit it needs to approach
mars at just the right speed
and angle if anything goes wrong the
entire mission will be lost
the spacecraft will study the atmosphere
to solve a big mystery
of how mars transformed from a planet
with water like earth
to the dry dusty world it is today
until now the uae has only sent
satellites into earth orbit
arriving at the red planet will be a
huge leap
to know that there is a spacecraft that
has gone from this region further than
any man-made object has ever gone
that is hurtling towards a small pink
dot that you also see in the sky
i can't describe i can't describe the
feeling
or the thought process but i never
thought that this was possible
the spacecraft has one shot to get into
orbit
if it succeeds history will be made
firmly establishing the united arab
emirates as a new space power
rebecca morel bbc news
and we'll be talking about uh all of
that a little bit later here on
breakfast
and if you think it's cold here well
it's better thought for our
canadian friends uh some of whom have
seen temperatures between minus 35
and minus 50 degrees celsius over the
past few nights
it has though made this possible
that was boiling water being thrown into
the air and look at it it's being
instantly turned into ice crystals um
because of the extreme temperatures
it has to be around minus 42 degrees
celsius
all lower for that to be possible so no
point to trying it at home
and probably quite dangerous as well
that is beautiful isn't it
wonderful put your eyes dude your eye
freezes up
though absolutely um
here we've seen some frosty scenes
across the uk in recent days
as another beast from the east has been
biting
we haven't quite got those pictures from
canada but we do have some of these uh
it's created the opportunity for some
sheep-powered sledging
in the derbyshire dales
the butt on the back there um as you can
see from scenes in south end on sea
it's never too cold for an ice cream
i fully agree with that do you i don't i
missed any weather whatsoever disagree
it was snowing in sheffield the other
day i took the dog for a walk and then
there was the ice
the ice cream van was cheese was there
hitting a party in this sort of blizzard
i appreciate they need to
you know sell our ice cream exactly it's
helping the economy
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story
dot with forward slash news follow the
story for all the latest with bbc news